Yes.
Hi, good morning.
I'm going to start the session now.
Hope everyone is here now.
Good morning, Sir.
Good morning.
Let me share my screen.
We were discussing about the Uh classes.
Let's continue that discussion.
The file file I already have shared with
you guys, right?
Object oriented programming.
So what is object-oriented programming?
How to define a class,
creating the object methods in a class,
object constructor,
hands-on labs and assessment quiz at the
end.
So what is object oriented programming?
Theoretically I already told you we are
think about the objects, right?
Not the functionality.
We will think about the objects and
depend on the objects.
We will create our programs.
For example you are going to develop a
employee.
Management system. So what you will do,
you will think about the employees and
then employee have some certain
characteristic. They have some sort of ID,
they have name and qualification and then
you have some sort of methods what
employees doing, registration, display.
A lot so.
The similar sort of things we will put
together that is known as a class and
then we will create a real time entity of
the class. For example you will say car.
So car is a class.
Then you are going to create a real time
entity.
Proton anything you are going to create
that is this one.
The object that is the real time example
of that thing.
For example you have created the employee.
Employee is a blue blueprint.
It's a blueprint employee have ID.
It's have a name and doing certain task.
Then you have created one employee.
For example you have created let's say
Ajmal.
So Ajmal have an ID 01 and he has some
sort of qualification.
So the Ajmal is the real time entity of
employee, right?
That will call automatically whenever you
will create the object of the class.
The constructor is a special kind of
method that is called automatically
whenever you will create the object of
class, right?
So let's see one example of how we will
define the class.
So as I already told you,
a class is a blueprint for creating the
object. It's a template,
it's an object factory,
anything you can see right?
So how we will write the class?
We will write the class.
Class is a keyword.
Then after that we will write the class
name and inside this class.
We will let all the class attributes.
We will let the functionality,
we will let the method. For example,
you want to use the ID name and you want
to do some sort of method display
register so you can write inside that one.
Here is one example.
You have created a car and the car is
defining. You have defined a method start.
Whenever you will create the object of
the car, you can access this method start.
So that uh.
Initial example of class we already have
seen. Let's discuss about the constructor.
So constructor, what is constructor?
Constructor is a special kind of method
that is called automatically whenever you
will create the object of the class.
So how we will write the constructor we
will write here init initialize.
This is short form of initialization.
So we will write the.
Under score, under score, init,
under score, under score.
Then we will write this parenthesis small
bracket that is your constructor.
Whenever we'll see this init that is your
constructor.
So initially once you are going to
construct all kind of object that time
you will use the.
A constructor.
So this method you need not to call.
It is called automatically. For example,
here we have create a class student and
inside this student we have write the
name and age.
So whenever you will create the object of
this class it is automatically called.
Let me show you practically.
So what we will do this is day number six,
right?
So we'll create the folder for day number
six. So here you will go to your folder.
This is your folder AIML and you will go
create one subfolder inside that.
That is day #6.
Right click here new folder and folder
name is DA 6.
Right.
And we will start with the constructor
example.
So you right click here and you can open
it in VS code.
So more options from here open with VS
code.
If you are not able to see that options
here so you can directly open using the
VS code also you already know right?
So I will.
Directly open from the Visual Studio code.
You will go to the Visual Studio code
from here.
And.
You will go here,
find open folder and you will go to that
location that is AIML day six.
Select the folder and you can open this
way. It's up to you.
Whatever the way is comfortable with you,
you can use done up to this level.
All of you online one as well.
So right click here we are going to
create a new for example.
This is.
Object oriented programming OOB example
one I have given the name dot py.
Or simply, let's say example one dot py,
the day six example number one dot py,
right? We are going to create a class.
To create the class,
we will let class is a keyword.
Then we will let the class name.
For example,
you are going to create a class player,
right?
Player and enter.
Here you are going to define.
Define the in need.
Init and we want to declare here.
Let's say I have right here print.
Welcome to player class.
Just to show you that player class.
And this class we have created.
This is how we'll create the class, right?
Just a constructor, no method,
nothing here, right? And here.
I'm going to create the object of the
class. So create the object of the class.
The syntax is we will write the object
name. Let me write here object creation.
This is objective issue we are going to
write here.
Let's say P1 or player one.
Let's say P1 is equal to player.
We have just tried this one and we want
to.
We have done this one only, right?
We have not tried anything,
we have not call any method,
just we have create the object and we'll
go here.
We will like from here Python.
Example one dot py.
Welcome to player class.
So you'll see we have just created the
object and it's automatically called the
this method, right?
It's fine. It is your your.
Spencer is perfectly fine.
There's no problem with it.
Even before we complain,
there's no problem. We'll start an update.
I think once again we'll check anything
with nothing. So we can use it.
OK, no, I need. Sorry you someone,
for example,
you said the money that you know about
the the class, right? OK, so.
What is? What is it so far?
Just what this is?
Salman started explaining about the class.
Are you connecting with the concept plus
what? What is the?
What do you think is the purpose of the
class?
You you tend to make sense of the play?
But can you just explain in your words
why? Why do you need classes in in Python?
Any idea?
And you wonder what that you think you
don't have to be exactly right or it
doesn't, it doesn't matter.
Where do you think that we should use
passes the purpose?
How are you? Me. Yeah. Hey, the game.
We give comment to the completed in one
in one.
And then not the common class. Yeah,
class. What is the purpose? Now, Mr.
Salman is teaching the class, right? Yeah,
OK,
we can record the class again and again.
We can call.
Yeah.
OK.
Miss you.
Similar.
A similar character think something like
that, yes.
Then it's the one. It's the a bit fine,
but think see, like you know,
you know the plain English, right?
In English you have heard about the noun,
right? What is noun? Anyone.
Noun in English noun, you know person,
place or thing is noun, right?
Similarly here in Python or any
programming language,
the class is a count kind of noun.
You see the person, place or thing,
any entity you are creating that class
the class have a.
Sense of attributes and functionality
right?
Like you say the in the noun you say
person. So person is a just a template.
It's not a actual person. For example Mr.
Wahid is here. So he is actual person.
He is a an object of the.
Class, right? So class is a blueprint.
It's a template of the things I told you
in the last session. For example,
you are using these laptops, right?
You are using the Dell, you are using Mac.
So these are all laptops,
but they have the different kind of
characteristics.
Every laptop have a different kind of
characteristics.
Once we will create the template,
the blueprint right after that we can
create the instance of that thing.
For example,
you have to manage the employees in our
organization.
So we will not create the separate
separate, we'll create the template.
In the template we will there will be one
ID, 1 qualification, one short.
Of job he is doing or she is doing.
So those characteristics we will lay
inside the class.
Whenever we need to create the real time
entity,
we will create the object of that class,
right? So if someone asks what is class?
So class is a template, it's a blueprint,
it's a collection of the things.
We will wrap all the things together.
Together and whenever we required,
we can create the real time entity for
that thing. Got it? OK.
I'm not from my programming,
but I'm like you guys, OK?
I'm from my networking, security,
that's my area of expertise. So what Mr.
Salman explained. OK,
it's a I'm taking your sight, OK?
So it's it's a for me also a big sounds
like a uh.
I take time to think a little bit.
I have to think about it and then I try
to make sense out of it to understand in
the relevance of what we're learning. OK,
in the in Python, we're learning Python.
So where exactly am I going to apply this
class or object or oops concept,
like object oriented programming concepts?
Where exactly I have to apply it.
So for me, if I'm one of you,
I will ask Mr. Salman,
can you show me some maybe a diagrammatic,
some sort of a, you know,
a picture or a mapping,
how exactly I can visualize better?
The class structure. OK, so Miss Amman,
do you have any such a diagram you can
you can show? At least I can also see.
Sure. So please, please show.
So I'm expecting you all to ask the
questions like what I'm trying to ask.
I'm I'm not from programming background
as well, so he's asked.
Explanation.
He explains in the way best possible from
his point of view. But as a student,
from your point of view,
you must try to ask question in the best
way that you can learn.
So both have to take advantage of each
other. So if you don't.
You know,
use his expertise for your understanding
and then then it it will not be a proper
learning. So ask interact.
Instead of, you know,
just keeping with yourself,
there is no such thing as a simple
question.
There is no such thing as a dumb question.
No such thing. Please ask me. OK,
I ask him a diagram. Mr. Salamat,
do you have any contender? No,
the diagram is at such is a no.
Make them understand better.
How to visualize the class structure? Yes,
absolutely. Yeah,
that that will help me as well. See,
for example, you are going to create all,
you know, the car, dogs, animals,
you know, right? So for example,
you have a car, right?
So the car has some sort of functionality.
So this is again the text, right?
Visual. No, we will.
That's mobile and sync. Fine. No issue.
Visually you want to see OK.
It's fine. It's totally fine. It's good.
At least.
Quick, for example.
Three, three wise. Uh, login need.
I'll be like, I have uh with you space.
OK.
This is all Mike. Yes, and me.
Just to be friendly,
actually I was really lost from the first
chapter up till now and I just give you
the view. Just a few minutes.
I didn't get the idea actually because
see this one is the the class.
This is the.
The row row concept, right?
So this is the you have created the class.
So class have some sort of properties,
right?
You have the some sort of color will be
there, some sort of price will be there,
some sort of miles he can cover model.
So this is the just.
Blank idea in your mind what you are
going to do that is the abstract idea.
It's going to forward,
it's going to backwards and all.
Once you go you will create the real time
entity. This is the real time class.
So here it's have some sort of color,
it's have some sort of price.
Here is how much.
Kilometer here the model start backward,
forward. This is the real time.
This is the template.
This is the blank thing and this is the
real time entity.
But you are programmer.
You need not to go to that one.
That's very it's basic thing.
Let him come.
You got it now.
Let me copy it and put it here.
It.
And.
It's.
Let me put it here.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't understand.
Sorry for the interruption.
So this is the one image I'll put here.
See, this is the template, right?
So this time we don't have the actual
thing. We have the idea in our mind,
right? We are going to create a car.
So the car should have some sort of color.
It must have some sort of price.
It must go some sort of kilometers and
all.
And there will be one model.
It can have the functionality,
it can start, it can go to the backward,
forward and all. So this is the template,
this is the class.
Now you are going to create a real time
entity, the real object.
One car,
one car you are going to create that is
have a color, let's say red.
Then it have some sort of price.
It has some sort of the destination it's
can cover.
It's some sort of model it have and these
are the things.
There's another car from the same
template you can create another.
Card with the color of let's say green or
the blue color or silver or anything and
it should make have the different sort of
prices. Thank you Sir. OK, you Sir,
does it make sense?
You understand better, right? OK,
this what? What? What? What did Mr.
Salman did now? He went to Google, right?
He tried to find using some sentence,
some phrase he used. OK, what's the class?
Oops in the in the graphical format.
He used that to find some videos.
I mean that there's some sort of a
graphical explanation and he watched it
and it is making sense, right?
It's you can visualize better, right?
You want him to do the all the training
in this way.
It's taking it's going to take six months.
Is going to take a long time.
So my advice to you, my dear friends,
you need to do this at home.
Because if you go this way,
it still will take too long.
So but if you can help him by preparing
extra spending at home,
you can learn more because he can use his
expertise to learn more things.
But by helping to prepare fundamentals,
everything at home, do extra work.
These 30 days,
give yourself these 30 days. Do more work,
spend more time. OK, tomorrow's topics.
Ask Mr. Salman.
He will tell you and then do some reading
about it. Next day, by the time you come,
it will not be a surprise for you.
So this is a problem of a prerequisite or
no ID learning in the past.
But the only way you can address it by
reading, watching,
doing more and more something about it on
a daily basis.
Then only your your mind will become IT
thinking mind.
So you do that 100% you will see a good
results. OK,
so that's my this is not actually
practically I wanted to demonstrate.
That's why I disturb your class so that
you know you can learn more by doing
extra work at home.
We just have to go and find you know more
explanations.
More ways of, you know,
understanding better. How can you do that?
You tomorrow's topics.
You get a list of topics from Mr.
Salman that night before you come to the
class. Do your homework and you do it OK.
So I hope this helps.
Sorry for the encryption. It's OK,
it's good.
Maybe if there's someone can say that BS
file, not the example. Mm-hmm.
I I will do. I will do that also.
That's fine and that that's also fine.
Yeah, I can. I can put in advance one.
It's OK. If you want it earlier,
I can do that also. OK, so please begin.
Yeah, fine. Thank you. OK, Mr. Meet,
I think it's.
It.
So this I think it was.
I think I by mistake I have given him the
apartment key. Why would I?
Can I please check the apartment key I
have given to you by mistake.
I don't know,
but it's anyway so then so this one is we
will write here the example.
So what happened is.
We have defined this is the constructor.
It's automatically create this thing
right?
So now we are going to create a method
done up to this level.
This one you have not done.
Let's create one method define.
Register.
Here is start.
We want the player ID, let's say.
ID we want the name and we want the T OK,
so we have self dot ID is equal to ID.
You want the name.
Self dot name.
Is equal to.
Name we want team self dot team is equal
to team.
And we want to display.
Is diff display.
This is a method display we have rate
print.
ID.
So.
Self dot ID.
Mail.
Name.
See you.
We have a team as well.
If you want to call the register P1 dot
register.
From here we have passed the ID,
let's say one name we have passed.
Let's see, uh.
MSPPM is we have right here.
India.
Tiny player.
We have created one more player.
E2 is equal to player.
One more player we have created.
E2 dot register query ID #2.
Let's see this one is.
And this is from.
Then we have created one more P3 is equal
to player we have created.
This one is power to player.
And we have registered it.
We do dot register.
We have right here new event.
Here it is.
We want to print. We call P1 dot display.
It will display the first player.
P2 display will display the second player.
P3 dot display will display the third
player.
This time I have taken the hard coded
values.
Next example I'm going to show to take
the values from the user. OK.
Yeah, yes.
Yep.
OK.
Done.
The second file will come out.
This is the thing. Let me check. Yeah, OK,
I need.
One two is publishing, right?
You do register in.
OK.
Thanks for.
We can play.
Mhm.
You.
Thank you.
So let's see your line number.
But.
Oh, I see you have a.
The values for this place for.
You have displayed already the P2,
that's why the display that goal.
See here. Uh.
3P1 This is P3 dot register. It's P3.
It is this P3.
No.
View terminal.
So here is welcome to player,
welcome to the player three times because
it's called automatically whenever you
create the object, right?
So it's calling three times.
Then the ID name you have stored
displaying here.
So you can use it using the constructor
as well that is parameterized constructor.
Done this one.
All of you online one as well.
Yes or no?
Hello.
I have copy this control C if I will use
it without the this one without
constructor,
without this register method using the
constructor. How we'll do it? See here.
I have commented this one.
If you want to use the parameterize
constructor,
this is next example I'm going to use
parameterize.
What happened to this machine?
Where am I traced?
Constructor.
So here it is. Uh.
We want to take it from here.
I have right here self.
ID.
We just delete all these things,
so here's the self.
ID name.
These things we want to take through the
parameter through the constructor only ID
name and one more thing we have team
right? Three things we have ID name, team.
So we have it here self.
dot ID is equal to ID self dot name is
equal to name then self dot.
What else? P is equal to P fine.
So now how you'll create the object?
This time if you'll create the object
player, you have created the first object,
let's say P1P1 is equal to P1 is equal to
player.
So you want to create the object of the
player.
So from here you have to pass this time.
The ID name and team from here.
So ID one name is let's say.
I'm writing the same.
So would we have passed through the?
Register method.
This time we are passing through the
constructor OK.
ID name.
Similarly we have created P2 is equal to
player.
We have right here too.
We have right here. Let's see.
And here we have right.
We have rate one more E3 is equal to
player. We have rate three.
We have rate this one and we have rate
here England.
We have created 3-4 as many as you want.
You can create, you can display here.
Oh.
Display.
P1 dot display if you like this one what
it will show any of you.
Displaying.
First.
Layer details.
Hello, yes, you want to have something?
Nuril Safiq.
Yeah, uh, that's me. Um.
Hmm.
I have issue when when I yeah at the
terminate it shows error.
You have.
Can you can I show the screen? OK wait.
Yeah, sure.
We have read the P1 register. OK,
go to the line #10.
Line #10.
Did you have a P display?
Um, I think here is. It's not blue.
I don't know why.
The go to the line #5 first.
Line #5 uh before D just click before D
def before def click.
OK.
OK. Oh, no, I get it. No, I get it. OK.
Thank you.
That's it. Similarly, line #10, line #10,
go to the line #10.
Line #10.
Hmm. And yeah,
before the field did the same.
OK. Yeah, yeah. It's just a tab.
All right. OK, got it. Thank you.
Yes.
You're most welcome because you have
right this inside the constructor.
It should be outside the constructor.
Yeah, it should be. Yeah. OK, I get it.
I'll wait. How do I stop sharing?
No problem, no problem. I'm sure stopping.
Alright, OK.
Um.
Uh, so this this is the next one.
Just a second.
Then this parameterized constructor all
of you.
So which one is displayed this time?
EX1.5.
This will display the first one.
If you want to display others,
you can write the others as well.
OK, I'm checking.
Yes.
Yeah.
Can you find them?
2.
Yes, it should be.
So I need to do the next. Yes. OK, well,
no,
just remember the spelling should be
correct, then two. And if you're right,
it's not the things.
It should be the same name exactly.
Init for constructor.
The rest you can write any the methods
you are writing that could be anything
but the constructor name should be init
only. This is the same thing right?
If you write something else it will not
work. But this one,
this method name you can write anything.
Got it.
We have right with double N so it was not
working.
So that that that's a constructor.
This is the default method because it's
called automatically right?
So it's name it should be the same only.
In it only these you can change the
register and all that you can change
right?
Which one can I use?
You have used word double N.
You are right, Sir.
See, it will not work.
It will like something else.
No other method you can give any name,
but this one should be neat only.
In one under score is double.
So for you to use double under score. Yes,
the double under score is there single.
It done all of you this one.
Once you start writing,
it will help you out. It's come out.
See, see, see you late there.
See these are all double. Oh yeah,
you will like like this one.
You like they're all built in like this
one. So you just choose init fine.
So for example you have not write this
one right now.
You have not write right and you want to
write here. Yeah. So how we'll do it.
So we'll go here, enter.
We will let and you will let here and you
will find out.
This one is here. We'll choose this enter.
So you need not write up anything. OK,
got it. So it will be fast.
So for decision all have to give number.
Absolutely.
All building like deaf you're late here.
Right here you you need not to type all
the things and you press enter.
It's automatically right for you.
The rest thing you want to do you just
write ID just from the list huh.
So it will make the things faster, right?
The help will come you press enter, enter.
It will whatever.
Done. OK,
now let's move to the next example.
That's.
Yes.
Initialize that you can have complete.
Yeah, it's.
Mr. Claud,
see if you want to check the second
player, what you would like. Hello.
Yes.
And third one P3 dot display.
So if you want both you can write P2 dot
display.
And P3 dot display.
OK,
so you can write it and you can check
from here. So here is all three players.
Now one more thing here,
if you want to print the player directly,
fine,
so we can write here you'll do up to this
level done.
If you want to print directly,
I want to show you one more method.
So if you want to print print P1 so we'll
see here it will give you some sort of
error.
But how we will handle this situation
then there is a method that I will show
you.
So here the main player object add this
this is showing this one.
It is on the memory location fine.
So we don't want this,
we want the actual value of the player.
So for that we have here one method. OK.
To handle the situation,
we have one method. The method name is.
Stir.
I will show you the problem.
So we will use if you want to use this
one. So we have a method. Method name is.
Death.
STR.
Right. We'll use that define strings.
So from here we write.
12 dot ID.
Yes.
Let's see.
What else we have team, right?
This.
T.
This one.
But.
It will be good.
So he will do it.
You can do.
View terminal.
So here it is. We have written ID, name,
entity.
So this one is returning you this.
So now we have just printed this P1.
So if we have this,
this is a string it's returning.
So all the things we have right in this
one.
So if you want to print a P2 you need not
to use the display now.
You can directly use this way also print
P1.
E2.
E3 right? We'll go here.
So you have the P1P2P3.
You got it.
Even the display, if you don't want,
you can comment to this and you can
directly use.
It is English, right?
What?
What's the difference between having that
and or having that?
This this one is that this this is a
method and this is the string.
It will show you the same thing means
every time you want to do the
concatenation,
you need not to call the method,
you just call the object.
You are calling the object is will print
anywhere.
This is the combination of all the things.
Play.
The one day is coming in the green one.
Mm-hmm.
The one I don't need for this like it.
Which one?
I don't need that one for that that one
is not required. Now you can just do.
If you want to use both,
you can use both also. But see here,
see here we need not to call the display.
We just write P1.
P2 and it will print from inside this one.
See here CLS in your screen.
So what object have everything is coming
here.
Then you guys can take the break.
Now your breakfast has arrived.
You can do the breakfast after 20 minutes.
We will continue all of your online one.
Also you can take a break and join again
after 20 minutes.
OK.
Hello, all of you, please come online.
Are you there, guys?
Yes, Sir. Ready.
OK, let's let's begin.
So we have seen the example of this one.
Yes, uh.
This string representation of an object
with the string method that we have seen
here, right? So here is the class player.
We have seen the string representation of
the object, right?
So this one is for number class person.
We have the shared name age and here we
have put the string representation so
that we have seen right right.
This is the string.
This is the built in method.
So this is the string representation of
that object.
We have created the object and we have
represented as a string.
So we have directly call it.
If you will not use this method so then
you can't do this print you can't do.
See for example here you have commented.
And you will go here view terminal.
Not what's are not working at the moment.
OK,
here is see it's giving you the the this
error because it's going to the memory
location, not to the string right?
If you want exact a string then you have
to use this method.
You have uncommented this one.
And you have printed again.
You have seen it here, see.
You got it?
Yes, it it's called the location only,
not the string representation like this
one.
This object it's add this memory location,
add this memory location,
add this memory location.
But we don't want to show the memory
location, but we want to show the.
The string.
So in that case we will use it.
So we we have to open the the the screen
right?
So anyone have any doubt question up to
now you can ask.
OK, now next yes.
So.
I still don't get it what self refers to,
what self actually refers to.
You have.
I still don't get it what self refer to.
OK, what what self do right?
Uh, yes.
The self keyword OK see self is actually
represent that that we are going to
discuss a particular instance for example
P1.
So we have created the P1 so self will go
to the that instance of this one.
For example you have a P1 player one MSD
and you have.
Print by P1 so it will go to that moment
location this that particular object.
So self denote to the instance of the
object.
It will not use the self that is for the
complete class that is a static thing.
For self it is instance for example P2 so
it will tell the.
Self means we will go to the P2 and it
will display for P2P3.
It will display to the P3.
The self is actually the.
It's representation of the instance of
the object right for the for the same
object we are talking about for example.
You are talking about here P1 so it will
go to give you the value for P1.
How we get to know how we get to know
that this is the you are talking about
the P1 display.
For example here let me show you.
You have created this three objects you
have created right?
How many three you have created?
Three you have created and you have
display only the two.
But we have created P1 player, P2 player,
P3 player.
So how we get to know that which one we
are we are going to call,
we are going to call the P2.
From here we are going to call the P2 but
here ID name and team how we will get to
know which ID?
Because P1 also have the ID,
P2 also have the ID,
P3 also have the ID right?
So from here the self itself tell that we
are going to discuss of the same same
player that object you have passed.
So if you use P2 so it will.
Give you the value for P2.
If you'll enter the P3,
it will give you the value for P3 self
represent the same instance. Got it?
Yes, yes.
No.
Clear this part.
Oh, next is uh.
Inheritance.
Inheritance is allows you.
Inheritance allows you the properties and
methods from another class. For example,
we have created a class animal and the
animal have the method speak.
So if we have write the speak then we we
will write another class.
That is inherited class and we want to
use the earlier class method.
So how we will do,
we will do using the inheritance.
Let me show you here.
For example.
This one is done.
Let me create here one more new file.
This is inheritance.
Example.
Dirt 5.
Right.
We have created here a class.
Let's say class name is EMT employee we
have right here.
Register.
That's.
Register.
ID and just two things for example we
have.
Self dot ID.
ID.
Alpha dot Lee.
We have here.
IT English.
Bend.
I do.
Name.
Yeah, it is me.
That's fine. You have created one class.
Last name is developer and developer is
drive from the EMP.
Here we have defined.
Welcome.
Print.
Welcome to.
W back.
OK.
We have just write this route.
Now see this is an inherited class,
so whatever you have inside the employee,
you can access it using the developer
also. So D developer.
We have created the developer.
We are ready dot.
Register and we have passed from here the
ID one name is Sam.
And we have display D dot display so
because this is a child class of this one
so you can access all the members of this
employee and plus this on methods as well.
Welcome.
View Terminal.
Here.
Well, not IDs.
Well.
OK, example.
Sorry one don't have anything.
I'm running the one by mistake.
I have to run what this and edit ends
example, right?
The terminal CLS Python.
Inheritance.
It's.
EX dot pi.
It is welcome. This is welcome.
You have to write self as well.
We don't want to pass,
we want to use only.
Ready one in this.
We want to just pause the ID server dot
ID.
Say the name.
Without this form that you want to use,
which I saw clear that will be good.
Let me just do this.
So I don't want to write in curly braces,
I want to write directly.
So here is control V terminal.
Series Python example.
Welcome to developer ID one names.
So let me explain it. How is it working?
See you have the class employee.
Employee is your base class,
base or superclass. Fine. So this is your.
Superclass. This one is known as.
Superclass or base class or parent class?
What do we call it?
Superclass or base class or?
For parent class.
Fine and this the developer is it's drive
class inherited class.
Inherited.
Inherited class or.
Where are you to class?
Or child class.
This class can access all the members of
parent class, right?
So if you'll create the object of this D,
you can access all the members of
employee,
but you will create the object of
employee, you can't access the member of.
Drive class got it.
So for example you have created the
object of employee class. This is EMP.
You have created E.
E is equal to EMP.
This is the object of employee class.
You can call the register if you want.
So here you have register one employee
103 for example 102 and the name is Raj
and you want to display E dot display.
You can display it,
but if you want to call welcome,
you can't call.
Welcome will give you the error, right?
So here is.
This is the basic one I have showed you.
After this we will see that the method
overriding as well. So here is 1-2.
So what the benefit is?
The benefit is if you have one built in
one class already and you want to use it,
so you need not write the methods again
for the next class,
you can call it directly, right?
So this is the developer is inherited
class and this is your base class.
Do it.
For example,
developer want to write this thing
differently. So how we will do it?
We'll do that one in the next example.
Here we have a class employee right?
So employee class have the register and
display method and the developer is a
drive class of employee dev EMP.
So using the developer,
we can access all the members that we
have inside the employee class. Got it?
Yes.
Do you?
You have to call him.
Oh, yes, for the welcome one. Yes, yes,
I have had this welcome for for you.
See this is the default behavior.
First you will do it then if you want to.
OK.
I need the volume set up.
Thank you.
I see, I see that. So I have the.
Oh, welcome to.
Yeah.
Something.
Yes.
If you will go ahead in somewhere,
then I can.
Why cancel?
See the next thing is polymorphism.
Polymorphism.
You know what the meaning of polymorphism
means one thing you have that have the
multiple form of that that is known as
polymorphism. For example,
here we have the employee register and
display right in the developer.
We want the registration and display
differently.
Right, so that is polymorphous.
Polymorphous means to have the multiple
format of the same thing.
So here is polymorphous allows method to
have different implementation based on
the objects.
Then we will change this one as well.
So first I'm showing you here this one.
Also I will make the polymorphism example.
So first we will go here new.
Five only.
Ex.py.
Volumor Facebook exam.
See here this is the basic one.
We have a class.
Could I write for you? OK,
let me write that will be good.
We have a class, let's say board.
And inside this class we have a method
defined like there is self and we have
right here print.
Bird can fly, right?
We have read one more here.
One more class. The class is, let's say,
uh, something.
Airplane.
Here play if you're right and you want to
do the inheritance,
you have to write the class name here
bird and you have right here define.
This is a fly as well.
Here you write self and you have printed.
Print this one is.
The plane fly.
So both have the same thing right?
Both both have the fly method, fly method.
But in this first class if you'll write
here you have created the object of bird.
Bird object let's see B is equal to bird
and you have call B dot fly so it will
give you the different thing and if you
write.
Word implementation.
And this is current.
Airplane implementation.
You have right here A is equal to.
We are playing.
A dot like.
So here then this time it will call the
bird and it will say bird can fly.
In this time it will call the airplane
and it will say airplane can fly.
This is just to understand the syntax.
The real example I will write after this
right? First we'll do this one.
Here it is.
What's the name?
EX dot file.
Here is bird implement is bird can fly
and in aeroplane means it will call the
aeroplane dot fly means if you are using
the object of the bird it will call the
bird one.
If you are going to create the object of
the aeroplane it will call the aeroplane
one.
You can do this way also.
You can write all the objects inside this
one and based on that you can call the
method.
For example here for OBJ in bird and
aeroplane there is the collection of bird
and aeroplane you have write OBJ fly.
So here is view terminal.
Oh, here it is.
Bird can fly and airplane can fly.
If you want to use the phone,
let me just print.
Uzim.
Or loop.
Exceleration.
I think it's excellent.
I think my keyboard is have changed or
something.
OK.
And then.
Hi.
Then we will see one real time use case
after this.
This is just to understand the syntax
because we have the same methods because
you can call it using the aeroplane.
Also you can call it using the bird as
well, right?
So it it's called the same method but in
aeroplane this is the different
implementation.
And in world this is the different
implementation.
So similarly for employee we want to
create for the developer the different
implementation and for this one for
employee different implementation.
I will show you after this we'll do it.
Fast then I will show you that.
What should I ask you to do like exercise?
Huh. That will be good, right?
OK, first I will do one more example,
then after that I will ask.
Just hang on. Yes,
this is a calling number meeting is a.
It's the B flyer here. Yes, A flyer,
right, right, B flyer. No,
because we have created this object A
here. A is for a plane.
And B is for bird, right?
We have rated B dot flight,
so it will give you the bird one and we
have called a dot flight.
It will give you the aeroplane one.
Tim.
You can write any name,
but this one is denote to aeroplane.
This one is denote to bird.
Right here we have read the same thing in
one go bird and aeroplane.
So OBJ is denoting the.
In first case it will be bird,
in second case it will be aeroplane.
Here we are right in board and.
Online one as well. Have you done?
Completed.
Thanks, uh.
OK,
So what we will do is we will select then
Misha.
What we'll do it,
we will select it and we will comment it
out.
So we want to use the same that
inheritance I have showed you this
employee class and the display one and we
want to define it differently.
In both the display, so you'll go here.
We have right here a class employee.
Should I write next one?
Here is a class class name is employee
and the employee one we have define the.
You need.
Init and we have right here.
ID name.
Well,
let me just show you first the simple one
without the definition.
So here is let's say register.
You have defined the register.
Here it is.
Print ID.
Oh, sorry, ID name self.
You have to write first self.
ID name.
Read.
Can you help?
Print.
Self dot.
ID is equal to.
Input.
Input ID.
Enter ID whatever the ID user have
entered,
we have assigned to this ID right self
dot name we have ask input.
Name.
Enter name.
Whatever the name user have entered,
we have assigned to this name, right?
Then we have right here.
Let me just write it without taking the
value.
We are taking the value directly from the
this one from inside the this method,
right?
We have right here deaf here is display.
Or this I have write only this self.
Here it is.
Print.
Name.
Self dot name.
Current.
I do.
Here is self dot ID.
OK,
this one we have right for the employee.
Then we have write one more class class
name is develop.
We have right define.
Register.
Be the self.
We are great here.
But.
dot.
We have call it.
It does.
We want to make it the CMP drive it from.
Self domain.
It is.
Enter domain and we have read the display.
Yeah.
Despaler.
And here we have it.
Couldn't.
Put in.
What the name? Uh.
Domain right?
Domain and here is salfa dot.
This one is we have right.
See here what we what it will do.
See if we create the object of employee,
it will call the ID and name only and it
will display here ID and name.
But it will create the object of
developer.
It will first call the super dot register
means it will call the superclass
register method. It will ask.
Enter the ID and enter the name and then
it will ask enter the domain so it will
store all the things here.
It will store the ID,
name and domain in developer case and in
this one it will call the display super
and it will take the name, ID,
both the things plus the domain in case
of developer.
So the benefit of this one we are not
right in this developer class all these
things again.
We have to just add the.
We have just add the domain in this one.
The rest thing it will take from the
earlier class.
Similarly to display this one,
we need not to write the all things again,
the all things it will display from the
employee class and the rest is from here.
So that is known as polymorphism.
The same methods because the developer
can also call these methods display and
the register.
So we have called inside the method this
one super dot register, super dot display.
What that means we are going to call the
superclass method.
So just one question to to all of you.
If I will write here,
I have right here the let's write DD one
is equal to tab.
I have right this one right and I have
right here.
E1 dot.
What?
Register and one more D1 dot display.
So what will be the output in this case?
Any of you? What will be the output?
Online,
offline any of you how it will execute?
You have right D1 dot register.
So this is D1 dot register.
It will go here.
This is the register method right?
D1 register developer register.
It will call super dot register.
Super dot register means it will go here.
It will ask enter ID.
Whatever the ID you have entered,
it will store inside this ID.
Then it will ask.
Enter name whatever the name you have
entered, it will store inside the name.
Then after this this line will come out
self dot domain enter domain.
So you have insert the domain domain also
it's stored inside the domain.
Then the next line will come out D1 dot
display. In this case it will go here.
From here it will call the main to name
self dot name ID self dot ID plus domain
self dot domain. Let me show you.
View terminal.
Then I will ask you one question after
this. CLS here is.
Under ID 12, name Sam,
domain is developer.
Developer and here the name ID domain.
Everything is displayed. Got it.
Hmm.
Any doubt question up to now?
Any of you online guys? Is it done?
If done, please say done.
Nephew.
Done. Yes, you have. I might.
Down.
Thank you. We just check.
OK.
Mm.
Mm-hmm. So it's an. Thank you.
Use that.
You know, I just.
It is.
That you have.
Uh, what you see?
Mhm.
So put it.
I don't.
Yes.
See what you do.
Yeah, it didn't say it was blank.
What do you need? I need new hats.
So.
Uh.
Right.
The matrix. You see what I mean?
We're not saying. Thank you.
I'm sure what happened.
Uh, she doesn't have any mind.
I think we should be better. Sit. Sit.
That's when we get that. I need, I need,
I need.
Yeah.
8.
One extended months clear.
I'm dead. I'm dead self.
This.
Stephanie.
I think, I think that's why the object.
So would be a.
I don't think.
Yeah.
Oh.
And to your.
Mm.
We we don't need me. I don't. I'm more.
Thank you.
Yeah, excuse me.
OK, done all of you this.
I'm I'm writing here the hawk code for
you.
And then you have to just show me how to
call it, right? Just calling.
I'm doing asking to you.
I'm writing here for the this is example
#3.
Here is done. Should I go to next?
New this is.
Constructor inheritance.
EX.
5 This is constructor inheritance I'm
showing to you right so.
I'm writing the similar thing.
But this time you will do the the half
thing I'm going to ask you, right?
So here is a class.
Class name is employee and here we are
going to write def. Let me just do.
Deft.
In it right and I'm writing here the.
ID.
Name qualification. There's three things.
Qualification.
Three things I'm taking from here.
So self dot ID is equal to ID self dot
name.
Is equal to name.
And self dot qualification.
Is equal to qualification OK and I have
rated this display.
Display self here is.
Well,
let me use the string one string function
here.
We have right here.
Those are done.
So.
Huh.
I'm.
Which examples of concepts song?
I mean we just display something.
Should I write this string as well?
Duff display.
OK, Sir, we are a display, Sir.
And we are right here.
ID.
I do.
Name qualification.
Destination value set right then
qualification. OK, we have created here.
One more class.
The class name is.
Developer.
The time from MB.
We have right here that.
You need.
Fine. And I have right here. See once.
Let me show you again. See here one thing.
See how easy it is. You are right here,
you are a deaf and then you are right
here. See all of you under score,
under score and you press enter.
So it's automatically write all the
things for me. Define IT self, ID name,
qualification, super elite.
4.
Right,
so it's calling the Super class thing
here.
You got it and plus we want to add 1
extra thing here.
Here I have added one more comma.
Let's see domain and project domain
project.
Two more things I have added here right?
Is equal to domain and then self dot
roject.
Is equal to project.
Two more things I have added here in this
one, right? And then I have right here.
See again I'm writing def and I'm writing
display.
Once I write this,
it's automatically write that things for
me.
So I don't want to return with the return
keyword I have removed from here and then
I have write print.
Uh, what else we want? Domain.
Self.
dot domain and here is.
Didn't.
Project.
Alpha dot project.
Done. We will write this.
So I have write this code.
Now you have to do.
Call.
Create one employee.
Object with ID one name something Sam.
Qualification MCA.
Qualification is equal to MCA and display.
These two things you have to do right?
Create one.
We have a object.
3D.
3.
No.
Qualification.
Don't take.
Project.
Please open.
And domain.
dot meet.
Mhm.
OK.
It is fully.
Develop dub details.
Display EMP details.
This much you have to do right?
The code I already have written for you.
You have to just call here is create the
employee object.
Here you create the developer object.
Here you have to display the employee and
got it.
Qualification. This is qualification.
We added qualification.
Otherwise it's too big for you.
Qualification QPUALIFICATIL.
You can write the complete also,
just short.
Clear the qualifications we have right
the domain projects we have it.
So all these things we want to take for
employee and for developer and want to
display one one I have asked not more
than that.
We'll leave a note.
So if you are able to call,
that means you understand, right?
Create and call how to create,
how to call the values everything I have
right for you that what value will take.
2467, The rest is online.
Slower than this is too boring, right?
If you want to slow down more.
Is it fine this bit?
I know few of you are new and you have to
do a bit hard work, but do it.
It will be after these 30 days you will
got something right.
It's kind of confidence kind of things
you can do so.
Just these 30 days you give to yourself.
OK.
And.
To people.
OK.
Did you need to?
Please be, please be with.
Thank you.
Yeah.
It's gonna be more. It needs to be.
We don't need.
It's not good. I think it is. It is.
So go ahead, go ahead.
OK.
I don't mind.
When is the when is the?
So.
I think there's.
Um.
We appreciate the time.
2.
But.
He went. Mm-hmm. Hey,
and even the from there,
he might be the personal.
Thank you.
What can you do?
I'm good. I'm good. Thank you.
It was the first. It was to.
What's the PDM? PDM that's.
OK.
That.
Mhm.
I think it's.
Yes.
Open.
It's.
G.
Yeah.
Done.
Well, line one,
you want to share responses.
I want chess. Yeah.
You want to share? Good. Share.
Kiwi.
Like this Sir, is it correct?
Scroll down.
Scroll down, show me the code. OK,
E employee E1 dot display print this data
level data display print. Perfectly fine.
Thank you.
Thank you, Sir.
Most welcome.
See, see have improved a lot, right?
So you have done it.
And then day one is asking how to install
you.
And then that seller have said not no to
install anything, huh?
Done. So if you want to create the object,
how will create? See already I showed you.
See you want to create the object of
imply E is equal to EMP and you will pass
the values. You want to pass the ID.
ID is what I said one.
And the name what I say name is time and
then what else?
Qualification is MCA.
And what else? This one.
So this one you have to do.
We will declare this.
Similarly you will write the other one.
Hmm.
What happened?
But it's not.
But I.
Qualification is.
Similarly create an object of developer.
So developer is D.
Or you can write DF is equal to developer
line because the capital and the small is
two different variable.
You can write a small also right?
You can write this way also.
So dove what do you have to pass this
time?
ID is 3, name is.
I'm writing the same thing that I have
asked Ravi.
And here is qualification is.
MTA.
And what else? We have project.
Project is equal to.
We shopping.
Eshopping and the domain is equal to net.
Fine, we are displaying the developer.
Print.
Developer details as follows.
Yes.
And do you have?
Printed.
You are a dev dot.
Similarly.
Employee details as follows.
You have display.
You have display EMP dot display.
Terminal.
Which one is this constant example?
But it can come.
OK,
so developer details as follows ID 3 name
this qualification E shopping project.net.
In case of employee this one is only
three things. Got it.
Yeah.
Mhm.
The question is there,
then the answer is or not.
Dial Terry.
I didn't listen to anything.
So.
This.
I don't.
It's interesting.
OK.
Yeah.
Mhm.
Yeah.
So that's the intention.
OK, you know what? You don't need a.
Done all of you.
Good.
Screen OK and hold the screen.
This one we are working,
not this one I think.
Hulu.
This one we were.
Mhm.
Do it.
Mhm.
I cannot write it, so hold on a second.
OK, this here. Oh, OK.
See what I mean here as well.
I always have this kind of things, right?
No, just you'll see the the the alignment,
right? The alignment, yes.
I think, uh, everything is fine.
The display have a issue being P
displayed in line.
Didn't it? I just open. This is a class,
right? Yeah.
The.
Then you can then try.
Yes.
OK, then you will be able to.
Number 39.
Where we have been to EMP, we are not.
You know.
Oh, no, you went. Yeah, I do.
If you're right, you want to. I see. OK,
don't check. I'll make sure.
OK.
I miss. I didn't say that.
I think we can. We'll wait. This week one.
That's it, right? Yeah. I think that.
So how to enable the highlight?
Hello. Yeah you have this highlighting.
What do you want to do?
I want to enable this highlight.
You have not read the code.
You want to read the code now.
No, I want to.
This highlight. Why is it?
Because you have used the details.
Wherever the details it will go to the
details.
For example,
this one you have select to wherever the
same it will select that one.
Is it normal? Can I? No. Yeah,
it's just me.
Even if you don't want to that,
I don't want to. It's insert.
Where is insert? Insert.
Yes, we're listening to that.
I'll talk to this. It's clear.
I never listened. It was to be.
This is enormous.
We will change with the screenboard is
screen.
It's it's wrong. It's right.
It's not changing the other one.
Mm-hmm. Yeah, right.
It's changing only the six highlights
here.
That's the same thing is there as well.
Otherwise we'll not change both.
We'll change only one three. That's fine.
That's what it should be.
Sir, Sir, yes, we can't answer. Sorry,
the the.
Display and print is doing what?
No a difference. OK,
display and print are different.
See the display is a method.
You can give any name to the this this
method.
Clear key binding input escape.
This is a function.
Think that.
See they are asking the print and display.
This is a method right?
So method you can give any names let's
say.
I call it the uh.
Info. So I am writing this so info, right?
Let's say so.
Show info. This is a method.
You can write any name to this one.
This is not built in right.
Let show info so it will become show info.
When you are going to call you will call
here.
Yeah.
Show info here also we will call show
info. So this is our method name.
You can give any name because I have used
2-3 times display so you might think that
it is only the display.
You can use anything.
This is just for displaying we have used
so we have read show info now if you run
it.
We'll go your view terminal. Huh.
Print is a built in function.
This is a comment. Sorry Python.
DX dot PY.
So here is dev show info show info.
It's giving you the error.
Why it's giving you the error?
Because we have rate super is display
display is store info now what is now?
Showing.
So.
The score in full.
Right.
So similarly other you have changed.
So this is the this one we have done now.
Oh, it says a return command return.
Return is returning you the data.
This is the function. No, no,
you can't change. This is the keyword.
That is known as keyword.
If something is there, that is keyword.
So the return is a keyword.
Super is a keyword, right?
Class is a keyword. Def is a keyword.
You can't change them.
Keywords mean a special kind of word that
have some sort of meaning for the
interpreter for the compiler.
So the def it will get to know that you
have defined it. So that is the def.
You have to write only def, def, def.
This is a class.
You have to write only the class to
define it till that this we are going to
create the class. Class is a keyword.
And this def is keyword and then the
super is a keyword. Fine,
you have to use the super only.
The rest is your own.
You can write anything.
You can write this.
Self is also a keyword.
The rest you can use.
OK,
so keyword means that is special word
that compiler have some meaning.
So you have to use only those like this
one.
This init is a built in function so you
have to write that one only init for
initialization.
No, they they they have asked. No,
you need not to do.
They have asked that can we write
something else in place of display.
So I have write this so in place of
display.
Yeah earlier one is correct but they have
asked can we use something else for
display so we can use.
So then you say this is a user defined
method. This is your own functions, right?
Your own. Well, you can write anything.
Just two because right to be you have not.
Listen what he's asking.
So here guys online one also he one
question is arise.
They are asking can we use this is the
display is a user defined name.
You can use any function name here.
So that's why we have changed display to
the show info.
You can write the display also.
So right the DSDISP I have right in one
example.
Now here is 1 real time usage.
Should I show you?
See here is a class account.
In this account class we have the account
holder name and we want to take the
balance of the this holder.
And once you will withdraw,
we want to just withdraw it and we want
to display it fine.
So we have the balance,
we have the this one deposit and withdraw
method and once user have add some money
in the account,
it will add the money in the.
If he want to withdraw something,
it will minus the amount from the account.
Fine.
So let's see here how we will write using
the classes, right? So let's see here.
I'm writing here new not folder, new file,
new file and file name is.
Let me call it banking example banking ex
dot Y right?
Here we have create a class.
Class name is account.
We have define here.
Init.
Then.
Here is account holder.
AC holder.
Conveyance.
Valance. Two things we have, right?
So here is self dot.
You see holder, let me write the.
Folder only.
And here is self-taught balance.
This is account holder name, right?
AC holder.
Let me write AC under score holder.
So this one you are right AC under score
holder, AC under score holder.
Whatever the name you want to give,
you want to write only the holder.
You can write holder only.
You want AC holder?
You can write AC holder.
I have write AC holder account holder and
so have this account then we have right
here.
Duff. We are right here. Let's see.
Deposit.
Here we have right self.